=head1 NAME

informash - A text generator using Markov chains

=head1 SYNOPSIS

informash --make-table [options] <file> ..

S<informash [options] [--words COUNT] [--sentences COUNT]>
S<          [--paragraphs COUNT]>


=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<infromash> is run in two stages.  Initially, it constructs the word
table from one or more text files.  After that, B<informash> will use
the word table generate text in the style of the original input text.

The text should be in plain 7-bit ASCII(?) with paragraphs separated
by blank lines.

The following options are available:

=over 5

=item B<-t>/B<--table> I<FILE>

Specifies the name of the file containing the word table.  If not
specified, B<informash> defaults to C<informash.wtbl>.

=item B<-m>/B<--make-table>

Run in table-creation mode: creates a new word table from the files
specified on the command-line.

=item B<-w/-s/-p>/B<--words/--sentences/--paragraphs> I<COUNT>

Generate and print I<COUNT> words, sentences or paragraphs.  When
selecting words, the output may contain paragraph breaks (since these
are considered words internally); otherwise, each sentence or
paragraph is separated from the others by a blank line.

It is an error to specify more than one of these options.

If none of these options are given, C<-s 1> is implied.


=item B<-d>/B<--debug-table> I<FILE>

Writes the current word table's contents to I<FILE> in a
human-readable format.  This is a debug feature intended to let
developers inspect the word table.

=item B<-s>/B<--seed> I<NUMBER>

Initializes the random number generator using I<NUMBER>.  When used,
B<informash> will always generate the same output for a given
I<NUMBER>, command-line, word table and B<informash> build.  This is
intended as a debugging aid.

=item B<-h>/B<--help>

Displays a brief summary of the available options and exits.

=item B<-v>/B<--version>

Displays the version information and exits.

=back


=head1 EXAMPLES

    $ informash --make-table moby-dick.txt war-and-peace.txt
    $ informash

    I am?

    $ informash -s 2

    Thus he had not in.

    "Look at no match, she was the activities at the coronation.

    $


=head1 BUGS AND CAVEATS

Table files are not guaranteed to be compatible between different
builds.  They should be treated as disposable caches.


=head1 COPYRIGHT

B<informash> and all related documents are Copyright (C) 2016 Chris
Reuter, All Rights Reserved.

B<informash> is distributed under the terms of the GNU General Public
License version 2.0.

=head1 NO WARRANTY

B<informash> is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
B<WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY>; without even the implied warranty of
B<MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE>.  See the GNU
General Public License for more details.

=head1 AUTHOR

Chris Reuter L<http://www.github.com/suetanvil/informash>.

Contributions are welcome.

